# YouTubeXLSParser <a name="readme-top"></a>

This little console app takes a Excel Spreadsheet, specifically the one that is generated by Jie Jen's [Export YouTube Video Comments to Google Sheets Appscript](https://learndataanalysis.org/source-code-export-youtube-video-comments-to-google-sheets-appscript/). He also has a great [YouTube video](https://youtu.be/A_i8aXsyQec) that walks you through taking you through it.

Jie Jen's appscript creates a spreadsheet of the comments for a particular YouTube video. This is incredibly convenient for those of us who love to read comments but hate YouTube's crappy UI for doing so. However, I don't find reading through spreadsheets much more fun than YouTube's UI for comments, so I thought I'd create a little program to parse the spreadsheet and spit out a "formatted" text document. This way, I could save this to pdf for offline reading on a Kindle, or use a text-to-speach extension or service like Tayl.app, to listen to the comments.

## Dependencies

You'll need to install [EPPlus](https://epplussoftware.com) package in Nuget

## Built with

Visual Studio 2022 using a C# Console app template and Freamework .Net 5.0 (Out of support).

## Config Settings

Currently there are just a few of these to start out with:

1. inputPath: name and path of the input Excel file (current I'm just using "input.xlsx" in the bin/debug folder, so change this based on your preference
2. outputPath: name and path of the output text file - same as above.
3. minimumCommentChars - I set this up so as to get rid of comments that are like "great video" and such. You can set this to zero if you want to show all comments regardless of length. I find this particularly useful when there are **HUGE** numbers of comments in filterning down some of the less... insightful ones.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Ideas for further development

The first thing I'll probably do with this is to upgrade the .Net version from 5.0 to a newer one, but this works fine for now, so I just kept it as is and will upgrade this as time allows, since I'm not as familiar with the newer framework configuration and syntax.

Otherwise, this is by far a perfect formatter! There are issues with indentation that I haven't quite figured out, so these could be addressed. There could also be settings to include/exclude emojis, and of course we could also have an option to save this as an html-formatted document or even markdown, for those who find those formats preferrable. There might also be config settings for including like scores and handle names of comment authors (I felt these to be things that would just add length without real added value, but some might prefer to see these, at least for reading consumption). The spreadsheet also has links to the youtube profiles of each handle for all the replies to a comment, although not the original comment for some reason, so for an html document those could be included, and even timestamps based on config settings.

## License

This program is distributed under the [Creative Commons Zero v1.0 Universal license](https://github.com/dvdmon/YouTubeXLSParser/blob/master/LICENSE.txt).

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

## Acknowledgements

Aside from Jie Jen's appscript as the main motivator for creating this I wanted to also mention that this wasn't a completely orginal app. I was lazy and asked ChatGPT to create something for me. It created the initial functional code for reading the Excel file and writing a text file. After that, I added all the additional parsing/filtering/formattting based on my own preferences and ideas, so ChatGPT just saved a bit of time in the initial researching of creating the main functionality.
